I just wanted to recap our discussion this morning.  I firmly believe that you are the right person to enhance the performance of the data engineering team and ensure that you and your team are an integral part of the data science products that ultimately drive our success!  I am 100% invested in your career at Kiewit and want to see data engineering become a powerhouse organization within Kiewit.  I want to confirm priorities and direction, in writing – so there’s no missed communication, with you to start to build trust:

1-Enable Data Science.  We need to both stabilize the on-premises tools (Trino, the cluster, Dagster/Dagster+ on-prem) and improve usability of GCP to serve as the backend for marquee domains such as Estimating and Scheduling.  By linking to Estimating, Vault will become the data backbone for the estimate review package (large implications to the business), thereby serving as a comprehensive data system for collecting data not in SAP and InEight.  So, we will need a robust plan to build out Vault because data engineering will need to sustain the lake ecosystem underpinning Vault.  We should have conversations on Vault with Desiree Rue jointly to ensure you can ask all the questions you might have and discuss what has been verbally promised to the business (Chad, Kevin Needham, Freeman, etc.).

2- 400+ scripts.  Our on-premises .bat / windows task scheduler process for ETL execution is in a bad technology stack, and we need to improve the technology stack we use to execute these ETL scripts.  The issue with walking away from these scripts is that it will have reputational damage to KDS DE and that could create subsequent discussions around building things in KDS at all or with additional KTG governance.  The overall challenge is that the scripts are by exception supporting data science workloads (non-core objectives and low ROI).  These scripts can be handled as an opportunity to upskill the DE team into new technologies, or we can hire someone to do the care and feeding work that would work for you.  Ultimately, we want these scripts to be minimally distracting to the top DE talent but all the work we do in DE needs to be done in a modern technology stack.  The goal within this objective is to minimally distract from our most talented resources.  

3-Custom Billings.  The objective within this team is to build out a data tool to support $20b+ in reimbursable contract backlog.  This is important and a non-DS objective that was given to KDS because of my familiarity with billing construction clients.  This is a great way to get to know construction job costs and the team has a late April 2026 go-live date.  The objective here is to first meet the go-live and then eventually turn this over to a care and feeding team that I would estimate will never go away.  I have told Dave Freeman that a custom billings team would require centralized overhead of $250k-$500k per year and I was told to go do it.  The two primary projects that will use the tool out of the gate are Homer City (largest power plant project ever) and Vantage (largest data center project ever).  

4-Focus on your team roster. Identify individuals who can fill key roles in estimating and scheduling domains.   Invest in finding additional resources to join your team.  I would like to ideate with you on organizational chart versions that both support the domains within KDS.  Here is a link to a domain organizational chart that I built this morning: 

5-The IT security team will have a steady eye on what we build outside of the Azure/Snowflake ecosystems so let me know when I need to bring things up to KTG leadership for discussion and to clear roadblocks.  Keep in mind, we started down the Google path together with KTG leadership in November of 2024 and that is predated by about a year of GCP POC work and usage of Modal.   Chris and Corby Dill understand that KDS is intending to be a multi-cloud data science organization, and they simply want to do it sparingly. So, I will need to bring these business cases to them and their top leaders for buy-in.  There is always a huge disconnect between the folks that fulfill platform tickets and the KTG leadership organization.  I have told them we are continuing to invest in GCP because Azure does not have some capabilities that GCP does and GCP has improved the velocity of data science projects.

6-KIP / KDP 2.0 – The mission is two-fold: 
•	Continue to make KDS the most advanced data and technology arm of Kiewit. Make data engineering a root cause for the success and not a dilemma like it is now.
•	Offer solutions to me and I will shield your time from these long discussions without clear leadership.  I can appreciate that people perceive me to be the quarterback of the ARB but I can promise you that I cannot make decisions fully on my own.  I would like to see us spend 30+ minutes more per week in time together and draw down the KDP 2.0 time spent.  I want you to verify with me any investment of your time into KDP 2.0 going forward.  


7-Iceberg & the KDS kid lake– The goal with iceberg is to allow compute where you want to compute and make all structured data extensible in Snowflake.  Iceberg is a bit challenging to communicate because it’s a newer technology to Kiewit and in some applications, we will connect a front end through an API (backend) to iceberg directly but in a lot of cases we will CDC to iceberg from a traditional database.  Ultimately, this is not a very hard communication hurdle when application entity diagrams are drawn out (source to target mappings or DAG’s) and reviewed but to date I have let data science work without impediment because I did not have a qualified reviewer of the data engineering.  I would love to spend time each week talking about data architecture and educating on how the data works in the business.  

8-Scheduling is the prototype for how we will do lake house architecture going forward.  This architecture is not hardened and I want to model it with you or review your ideas.  Scheduling data has long been a struggle at KDS but we now have a clear linkage between a job code, data date, and schedule id / database instance id. We have spoken at length about the failure of my leadership within scheduling and I accept that feedback.  With that set aside, I am extremely excited about the opportunities on the horizon with scheduling.   I want to develop a pub / sub model for this data because there is a large, yet dispersed, audience for the data in Snowflake.  There is so much analysis that is done a local basis of schedules that we can unlock for the company.

I want to be explicit – you are not responsible for the success of KIP.  You are to be laser focused on improving data engineering within KDS.  To the extent that KDS takes over domains, on behalf of Kiewit, then the roadmaps intertwine but today that is not a given.  The matrix data architecture board will likely ask you to setup services for Dagster+, Confluent, etc. but those objectives are secondary objectives to your role leading KDS Data Engineering.  Your performance will be reviewed on the success of KDS Data Engineering.
